### Elisabeth Self Assessment (Spring)

I was responsible for the UI design and integration portions of the project. Since I’m the team member who has the most experience building React web apps, I was also primarily responsible for architecting the web app and determining what third-party platforms we were going to use. I spent a good portion of the semester researching Scratch and picking apart their code to figure out how we could integrate with it. Since Scratch 3.0 is in beta right now, documentation is practically nonexistent, so this proved to be much more difficult than I had initially thought. Scratch hasn’t been built to be particularly composable with other React components, so I spent a decent amount of time refactoring their code base so we could easily consume the portions that we cared about. I figured out how to integrate our custom blocks with their drag and drop interface, and then plug it all into our UI wrapper. I wrote the scripts to parse through their JSON representation of the block interface so that we could translate the block code into JavaScript that we could use to control our UI sounds and animations. I wrote unit tests for our components and a few integration tests for the whole UI. I also helped out with the validations for each level and worked on the build process and setting it up to host our site through GitHub pages.

I was able to use and build upon all of the skills that I detailed in my initial self-assessment from last Fall. I expanded my UI design skills by designing an interface that was simple and approachable enough for children to use. I was able to use all of my skills and experience in web development to do the hard work of integrating all of the different pieces together. One of the most significant things I learned from this project was how important good documentation and clean code is. We could have done a lot more in the time frame if Scratch had better written instructions detailing how their code fits together and how to build on top of it. I also learned a lot more about build processes and scripts, and how to modify those to make my code as optimized for production as possible. I’m really proud of this project overall. If you would have shown me all of the code I touched for this project even a year ago, I don’t think I would have believed I could understand it all at the level I do today.