Our project, _Music Machines: An Hour of Code Activity_, is about using music to help kids learn about computer science and coding. Hour of Code is a  global computer science education movement that aims to engage students of all ages and backgrounds and teach them about coding in fun ways. It comes from Code.org, one of the biggest non-profits in computer science education. Our project will follow the Code.org/ Hour of Code guidelines, and thus our project will be free and self-guided. It will benefit society by allowing kids of all ages, genders, and backgrounds to learn about computer science. The guidelines for submission that are being followed can be found [here]( https://hourofcode.com/us/activity-guidelines).

This project helps us promote diversity by making computer science accessible for all groups. All members of our group are very passionate about getting people involved in computer science, specifically girls. This project is designed to avoid stereotypes that might deter different groups from participating. The only diversity/cultural constraints we face are related to the age group we are targeting. Because we are gearing our app towards elementary aged children, we must consider the reading level, motor skills, and world experience that children have. A [study](https://ro.uow.edu.au/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?referer=https://www.google.com/&httpsredir=1&article=2494&context=edupapers) from the University of Wollongong states that "many students create and listen to music in their personal time outside of school through the skillful use of technology, demonstrating a strong engagement and interaction with music through technology." 

Our project does face some ethical/security concerns. Our app will be primarily used by children and schools. We will have to be careful if/when we have any of their personal information. We would only need personal information in the event that we are allowing users to create accounts. We have also been thinking about how users will be able to share their creations, so we have to consider the information we will require for sharing. We will have to follow the [Children's Online Privacy Protection Rule ("COPPA")](https://www.ftc.gov/enforcement/rules/rulemaking-regulatory-reform-proceedings/childrens-online-privacy-protection-rule). Looking at these rules, it will be best to not collect any personal information from our users.

Finally, we face some financial limitations. We are responsible for hosting and maintaining our application. This means that depending on the amount of users and traffic we see, we could be forced to upgrade from AWS free tier. We are also responsible for purchasing our own domain. If our activity is chosen to be on the official Hour of Code page during Computer Science Education Week in December 2019, we could see a large amount of traffic. If many users want to save their creations as well, that would affect our financial situation as well. 
