Our senior design project is creating an Hour of Code activity that will help introduce elementary students to computer science. It will follow Hour of Code guidelines, so it will be one hour long, self-guided and completely free for students to use. The Hour of Code activity we've decided to create is called *Music Machines*. In this activity, students will be able to make their own songs by piecing together custom Scratch coding blocks. Through the course of the activity, we hope to introduce the concept of loops, variables, and possibly conditional statements. Ultimately, this web application will serve as a fun, non-intimidating tool to introduce students to computer science concepts in a way that makes them excited to keep learning more.

My college courses have helped prepare me with the necessary skills to complete this project. Some specific CS courses that will prove useful as I start this project are ***CS4092** (Database Design)*, ***CS5151** (Database Theory)*, ***CS5128** (Large Scale Software Engineering)*, and ***CS1021** (CS1)*. CS1021 was the first computer science class I ever took, and I had an excellent professor who helped explain programming concepts in a way that made me confident and excited to learn more. Watching the way Professor Talaga taught these concepts will help me as I think about how to design this project to teach computer science in a user-friendly way. Both CS4092 and CS5151 have prepared me with the knowledge of how to design a database in a way that makes sense and doesn't introduce read or write conflicts. I will use this knowledge as we decide how to structure our database for the project. Finally, the skills I learned in CS5128 will serve me very well as we finish planning this project. Most of what Large Scale Software Engineering taught me was how to accurately plan and estimate software projects so that they are completed on time and in budget. I will use some of the project planning techniques I learned there as we map out a timeline for the project so that we make sure we can complete everything we want to in plenty of time.

While my college classes have certainly been helpful in providing me with some foundational skills for this project, my co-op experience is what makes me confident in my ability to excel at it. I worked as a Front End Development Intern for The Brandery for one semester, where I worked with 3 different startups to completely rebuild their websites. During my internship at The Brandery, I had to manage my own schedule to make sure that none of my prjects fell through the cracks. I built web apps using React/Redux and Ruby on Rails and websites using HTML, CS, JS, and EJS. I integrated with a variety of third-party services, and learned how to quickly ramp up on languages I didn't know since I was working with a variety of code bases. I also worked closely with our UX intern to design the websites on Sketch. My experience at The Brandery has prepared me by giving me the necessary expertise to build a web application from the ground up. I also have been co-oping as a Development Intern at Kroger Digital for the past year. I work on a UI team that manages the checkout space for Clicklist. My co-op experience at Kroger Digital has equipped me with the knowledge of how to build highly scalable web applications using React. I've learned a lot about best development practices, how to work well with a team of developers, and how to write microservices. These skills will serve me well as we collaborate to work on making sure our website is able to handle the traffic of many users. Finally, I've also been freelancing on a variety of web and app development projects over the past two years. My freelance experience has given me the ability to accurately estimate and manage software projects. I'm used to deciding on a tech stack makes sense for a given project, and I'm pretty good at foreseeing any potential road blocks. I've built entire web and mobile applications by myself, from designing and implementing a database, API, web and mobile application to integrating with multiple third-party libraries and hosting everything on AWS. Because of this, I am confident in my ability to complete this project, especially with the help of additional teammates.

I am so excited to start this project, mainly because of how passionate I am about the problem we will be working to solve. You can tell just by looking around our senior design classroom or my workplace how few women decide to pursue a career in computer science. I consider myself one of the lucky few who found this major entirely by chance, and I would not be writing this proposal if my uncle hadn't encouraged me to give computer science a try at the end of my first year of college. I was never encouraged to pursue anything related to technology growing up, and if I didn't have an uncle in the industry, I don't think I would've even considered it as a prospective career. I know that there are many more students who have never been told that they could grow up to be a programmer, which is why computer science education is so important to me and the rest of my team. We want to expose as many students to CS principles so that they too can have the chance to understand that computer science is for them and is a field that they can confidently pursue.

Our preliminary approach to solving this problem will be to focus on designing an elegant, user-friendly web application that elementary students find easy and enjoyable to use. We will have multiple "levels" that will introduce new concepts to the student, each with drag and drop coding blocks and a UI that will help them understand (visually) what the blocks are creating. The end result will be a web app that is hosted somewhere & meets Hour of Code guidelines. If we have time, we can always add more features or levels to the app, but we want to start small for right now since we have so many unknowns. As long as the final product meets these Hour of Code guidelines, we will be happy with calling it a success.