Our project, _Music Machines: Hour of Code Activity_, is about using music to help kids learn about computer science and coding. Hour of Code is a global computer science education movement that aims to engage students of all ages and backgrounds and teach them about coding in fun ways. Our project will follow the Hour of Code guidelines, thus our project will be free and self-guided. Our goal for the project is to create a new, fun way for kids to interact with code using music. Students will be able to use loops, coditionals, and variables on soundbites to create their own music. 

All of our group members have some experience in web development, which will be very important for our project. Personally, I have done 4 co-ops working with web development at Siemens PLM Software. I mainly worked on UI components, but also dabbled in some back end work. I worked primarily in TypeScript/JavaScript and nodejs. I also built angular components. I believe these co-op experiences will be extremely beneficial when developing our project. 

I am also currently taking a UI course, which will probably be beneficial to developing our web app. Though it's still early in the semester, the curriculum says we will learn about human-computer interaction. This will help us understand our audience and how they interact with web apps and games. I have also taken a database design class, which I'm sure will be helpful down the line depending on what database type we are going to be using. 

The motivation for this project comes from a passion for teaching computer science. All four members have this passion, specifically for motivation girls to pursue computer science. 2 of our members have personal experince with teaching computer science through an organization called Junior Tech. The other two members participate in hour of code events through Code.org. Another motivation for this project is working through a non-profit organization--Code.org. Our project could potentially be shared on their site, thus having an outreach of over 100,000.

Our preliminary approach for this project is to design a simple, user-friendly UI that allows students to learn simple coding techniques in a fun way. They will be able to use loops and conditionals through block based coding. Many of the hour of code activities are similar, so we hope to bring a new apporach to hour of code with our project. 