Tessa Wiedmann Self Assessment Essay

​	Ever since I was in first grade, computer class was always my favorite, whether it was learning to type or designing the yearbook my senior year of high school. I never had the opportunity to learn computer science until I started at UC, but I wish I had. Introducing computer science concepts as early as Kindergarten not only teaches valuable life skills, but it also teaches problem solving, critical thinking, and persistence. Possibly even more important is that it breaks the stereotypes that exist in computer science- that it’s only for boys, that it’s extremely “hard”, and that it’s not applicable to everyone. As one of the only girls in my computer science classes, I believe breaking these stereotypes early will benefit a generations to come. Initiatives like the Hour of Code, where there are hour long self-guided tutorials that can be run in any classroom, regardless of the teacher’s previous computer science experience, help open these doors. For these reasons, I could not be more excited to create our own Hour of Code activity.

​	My collegiate experience has prepared me well for a computer science education senior design project. Specifically, CS 4092 Database Design and CS 4065 Computer Networks have been very helpful. Database Design not only taught me the basics of querying languages, but also helped me develop the mental models needed to understand how databases work and how to build one based on specifications from a customer. Computer Networks will be useful when setting up the back end of our project, especially if we want many students to be able to access our website at the same time. I have also taken courses outside of the computer science, including a class about STEM Education and a class about Active Research. There were many other classes that had extremely relevant content, but because of the way the classes were structured and taught, I felt like I didn’t really learn anything until I applied that knowledge on co-op. 

​	My co-ops have also prepared me well for this project. The most relevant co-op to this project was the semester I spent at Code.org in from January – April 2018. I was on the Curriculum team there working on Kindergartner – 5th grade curriculum that Code.org provides for millions of students. Code.org is the leader in computer science education, so I learned a lot about student engagement, learning styles, and how to teach computer science effectively, even at young ages. I also had the chance to jump in some of the engineering projects, so I had hands on experience with some of the systems at Code.org. I also did two co-op rotations at Microsoft where I gained a lot of soft skills that will be very helpful in this project. One of the summers I spent at Microsoft, I worked on projects together with two other interns for 12 weeks. This prepared me well for working as a team on a long term project like this capstone.

​	My manager at Code.org is one of the two people that review Hour of Code activities every year to decide which ones are good enough to present as 3rd party activities for the Hour of Code website. He is a contact we can use throughout this process. I asked him what the current activities are lacking, and he mentioned that a project involving music would not only be very engaging, but also something that hasn’t been done before. I got to witness first hand how students gravitate towards music blocks in a block based programming language, even over blocks that would make a LEGO robot move around right in front of them. The ultimate goal is to create something that not only teaches basic computer science concepts and engages students through music, but to also have the activity be accepted as an official Hour of Code activity for Computer Science Education Week in December 2019. This would allow students from all over the world to find our project and learn!

​	Personally, this project means a lot to me. Before coming to UC, I had no previous computer science experience. I knew I liked computers, but had no idea what computer science was or what kinds of careers it could offer me. If I had the resources back then that students as young as Kindergarteners have today, I would have absolutely loved learning about computer science. This project is a way for me help future generations to come. I am extremely excited to learn a lot of technical skills on this project, but at the same time be able to contribute to society.